[Music] Hello, Auntie
.  In my academic and
professional life, during the initial stages of interaction, I was generally highly
regarded by everyone.
But after a short period of contact,
she lost the respect of some
people.  In other words, they hate me.
I asked some of my friends
and they said it was because I was too
serious.  I want to ask you why they
hate me and don't value me as much as
before. What is the most effective way to gain the respect of
others
?
Ah, this person is simply too
serious, which is why
people don't like them.
That serious person isn't necessarily
unpopular with others.  He's too serious,
but if you criticize
or find fault with
other people's lack of seriousness,
he'll gradually lose
relationships.  What if he/she is serious, but you
just go along with the lack of seriousness
of others?  That means their business is
their business, and mine is
mine.  If we don't condemn them, we won't
lose those relationships.  For example,
we can live a really good and
serious life for ourselves.  That's
really like what people say: that I'm very
strict with myself.
But don't be so strict with other people
.  Don't be too strict with others,
because strictness can turn into
holding grudges.  They nitpick every little thing.  And
strict people rarely forgive.  That's why,
because we often hold grudges and
refuse to forgive, people won't
agree with us or want to be friends with
us.  Because of this...  If something
aligns with a particular viewpoint, I can take it
seriously, but if it doesn't,
I know that this is
just a matter of dealing with things in life.  It's just a matter of how we treat each other;
they'll take care of their own lives
, and I'll take care of mine.
If they need to ask me
serious questions, I answer them very
seriously.  But when they don't need me to
ask them anything, and I don't need to answer, then it
's their business.  They speak, and
don't criticize them; it's a waste of
time and can damage relationships.   I
would like to ask a question from a friend who
is also my younger sibling.  He is currently
facing the following difficulties in his
life.  That person has the mindset
that they really enjoy helping
people.
He will help with anything he feels he can.
However, sometimes she feels like,
well, she says she doesn't
want others to be too much better than
her.  However, in some cases, with
relatives or acquaintances,
for example, sometimes after
doing something for them, they
feel as if the person doesn't appreciate it
, doesn't
value what the person has done for them,
and instead feels it's just an
obligation, something they are obligated to
do.  Sometimes, when she experiences
such distress, she
really hopes that by coming here, she can
ask you for your insights
or advice on how to
overcome these troublesome emotions
.
Ladies and gentlemen, this
happens very frequently here.  For example, if
four or five people are playing together
and I'm always the one getting chairs for
everyone to sit on, at some point
everyone will think that getting chairs has
become an obligation.
The other person never went to get a
chair, so I just took one myself.  And
they keep thinking that at some point they'll
send me to get a chair, get me a
chair and bring it here.  That's something that, when a
practitioner of giving doesn't
understand, it becomes a source of frustration.
That's frustrating.  So how can I act
in a relationship so that others
don't feel disrespected?  There.
So, this is how he got there.  In
certain situations, help should be given, while
in other situations, it
should not be given.  For example,
I could get a chair for you to do
everything, but at some point,
tomorrow or the day after, I need to
control my own mind.  Excuse me, could you get me a
chair?  So, that means there has to be give and
take.  It's a bit of a give-and-take situation, but
you can get a chair for them five times, and
you can also subtly ask them
to get a pillow for you once or twice
so that it doesn't become a well-worn path.
Well, in Buddhist teachings, this path
involves creating
negative karma for others.  That's it, you're causing
others to lose their blessings by giving birth to them
.  So when we do something, let's not let
others lose their blessings.  So, that means we
have to treat each other as equals,
as friends.  Therefore, I gave alms
to him, and I didn't want him to give alms to
me, but I didn't create any negative karma for
him.  So, that means if I can get something for myself now,
I can get it two or three times, but at some
point I also have to create a
false situation.  Create a false scenario,
but don't let it last too long.  So, while I was
writing, I didn't think twice before writing, "Please get me a
chair," and, following my old habit, I assumed that since
I'd gotten one for my friend, they'd get one for
me right away.  Then erase the trail
inside.  In Buddhist philosophy, this is
called benefiting oneself, benefiting others, or benefiting both.
Don't just think of yourself as the only one benefiting.  Even though
that person keeps taking so many chairs, if they
contemplate the act of giving,
even if they make a mistake 100 times, if they keep contemplating
giving, this act of giving will give
rise to joy in their heart. At some point,
they will leave the community because
their merit is too great. They will have
other relationships, and they will go
elsewhere where those people will not have enough
merit to associate with them, not enough merit
for them to serve them anymore. But if they contemplate
deeply, it will all be alright.  When
people are wrong about you, the first thing to remember is their
merits.  The second part is rotating towards the
center.  If your mind feels upset or
frustrated, then you see that as the ego
.  Therefore, we must let go of the ego,
gradually let go of it, let go of the ego completely.  Then
your good fortune comes very quickly.
Soon, all the circumstances will
lead you to a place where you can truly enjoy the
blessings of this world.  So, that
applies to the present situation if you want to respond
easily. If you can't yet input the
other option, you'll have to do a little give and take,
benefiting both yourself and the other person.  But if you only
think of yourself, you'll
leave this group very quickly.
la